Ok, this setup is not fully working. I think the way that you have designed the backend is not great. Let me explain how I would like the service process to run. 

First off, the eto_run table should have a column to represent the highest level of status. This status column will be useful for use from the front end to display various types of eto runs to the user. It will have the values "not_started", "processing", "success", "failure", "needs_template", which are all generally self-explanatory. These values indicated the overall status of the eto_run, and are not very detailed, but all are used essentially as switches to be able to look at other columns related to the specific statuses (e.g. failure should indicate that there is a detailed error to see, success would indicated that the target_data column is populated, etc).

Next, there should be a column to note the current processing step. The way that processing will flow is: "template_matching" -> "extracting_data" -> "transforming_data". So, once an eto run is started and entered into the processing state, it will begin this processing lifecycle. Each step feeds directly into the next, and upon successful data transformation, the overall status is set to "success". If there is an error within this process anywhere along the line, then the overall status should be set to failure, and the error message and specific details (e.g. which processing step, what object cause the failure, etc.) will also be attached.

Along with these statuses, the eto_run object itself should store data about what has gone on in each step. So, for the template matching, if a template was found, then there should be a column to indiciate which template matched. For data extraction, there should be an object field that shows what values were found associated with what fields. For data transformation, there needs to be another object that shows the data's lifecycle in its transformation. So, this object should indicate what inputs and outputs were sent to each step, along with the ids of the extraction rules that were used to calculate the transformations. Finally, there will be a target_data column of the eto run that indicates the completely transformed data, ready to be used for order creation.

Next, the json of the pdf objects should be stored in the objects_json column of the pdf_files table, not in the eto_runs table. This is because the eto_run table is constantly changing and updating. It is better to reference the objects as calculated in the table regarding the pdf files themselves. So, immediately upon recieving a pdf to process into the system via email, the service for getting the pdf objects should run, and that column should be populated.

Here is an overall view of the process in its entirety for better context.

First, an email is recieved with pdfs via the email ingestion service. The full object parsing process runs, and attaches the objects json to the pdf_file table on each corresponding pdf under the column objects_json. At the same time, an eto_run row is created and associated to the pdf, with status set to "not_started". Once the pdf objects are calculated, the eto_run calculation process can actually begin. So, the status is set to "processing" with the processing status of "template_matching". This checks the objects_json of the pdf against the signature_objects fields of the pdf templates. If a template is not found, then the eto status is set to needs_template and it ends there, until a refresh is called to check any unrecognized pdfs.                                                         

  If the template is matched, then the processing status is updated to "extracting_data". From here, the extraction_objects column of the pdf_template is checked and a base extraction method is ran against the matched pdfs objects_json to get the data out. During this process This method will simply take the pdf objects and return the text objects that have overlap with the bounding boxes of the extraction_objects of the template. It will return a json / dict that contains each extraction object name, as defined by extraction_objects and the value extracted out. Example: {"hawb": "12345", "pu_date": "8/25/25", ...}. This will be under the column "extracted_data" in the eto run.

  If there was no error within the data extraction process, then the process status is set to "transforming_data". At this point, the process now needs to check in the extraction_rules and extraction_steps tables for instructions of how to transform the base data. If there are no steps associated with the pdf template, then the transformation process is complete, and the target_data column would match exactly with the extracted_data column. When there are steps associated with the template, however, there must be indication as to what happened with each step. So, there should be an object to show the inputs and outputs of each step. For each transformation, the beginning data will always be that of the extracted_data column. Each of these field names will be targeted by some extraction rule, which will then output new data under some possibly different field name (e.g. {"step1": {"input": {"pu_address_and_date": "123 example st. 08/27}, "extraction_rule_id":2, "output":{"pu_address":"123 example st", "pu_date":"08/27/2025"}). That specific format would not fully work, but it would be something along those lines, so that I can audit the path of data transformation. This step is not entirely important right now, so don't worry about implementation too much, just keep it in mind. After this process is complete, processing status can be nullified, and the overall status can be set to success.

  Keep in mind, that anywhere along this process, there should be detailed error handling in the event that something goes wrong, and the status should be set to failure.

  Now, in the event that there is a failed run, or a pdf that needs a template, then those runs should have the oppurtunity to go through the process again in its entirety, with their status moving from needs_template or failure back to processing, to kick off the eto process again for those pdfs.

If you have any questions or clarifications, please let me know.